So please remember to test
everything on every OS,
because if you are expecting your app
to work only on landscape, for example,
if you just say landscape,
well that might not be the case on iPhone.
And on iPhone,
it will also work on portrait, so
your CSS should react to
that orientation as well.
If you want something that you can do
is using media queries, and then show
a warning message to the user saying,
hey, these orientation is not compatible.
So please go and do something.
And back on my iPhone here, and
they wanna show you one particular PWA.
It's actually targeting iPhones that
is actually using that trick with CSS.
It's called eye test.n thing from
New Zealand and it comes from Samsung.
So it's a PWA from Samsung that lets you
test assumption device in your iPhone,
okay?
But it's actually pre, pre good PWA, so
if you look at this, it's actually
inviting me to install the app.
And we're going to talk
about that later as well.
So I will install the PWA,
Samsung iTest, and
now if I open the app,
I will pass the first button.
I have like an Android user
interface within an iPhone, okay?
That's kind of the PWA, but
it doesn't work in landscape.
However, Safari is not supporting the web
app manifest orientation property.
So if I go landscape, actually
the web app goes landscape as well.
However, using media queries orientation,
actually,
it's asking you to rotate your device.
So this is like a fallback solution, so
have in mind that's possible sometimes and
part of the P in PWA,
is to use progressive techniques.
And that means that you should always
have a fallback if one capability or
ability is not available
on one particular device.
The next property that I wanna mention
it's called theme color, theme_color.
It accepts any CSS value, however,
to be safe,
you should stay within RGV colors.
The RGV function or
named colors such as orange,
or pink,
don't use things like gradients or
RGBA because it's not gonna work,
but any other color will work.
The theme color will actually define
how your app will look like for
example if you remember Squoosh,
If you remember Squoosh
is using this pink color.
Well, that's their theme color
that they have in the manifest.
In fact, we can actually go and
see this in action.
If we go to a squoosh.app,
We can open Dev tools,
go to application manifest, and
it's called manifest.json.
So I can click on that file and
see its contents, and
we're going to see the theme color there.
And that's actually the pink
color that we saw before.
The theme color can also
be replaced by a metadata.
So most of the time when
we set a theme color,
we typically also set that
in the HTML as a metadata.
By the way, you know what,
when we open the CSS file we do have
some colors here that we can use.
For example, we have a color theme that
I can copy and paste within my manifest.
There is no way to use
here the CSS variable,
that we have in another file, okay?
So it must be a literal value
that we set in the manifest.
So that's the theme color and
if we wanna add the metadata
within the health we have the meta name,
theme color.
And be careful here, big warning.
So theme color in the manifest
is with underscore, but
theme color in the metadata is with dash,
sorry about that folks.
So pettah name theme color, and for
the content, we use the same value.
And later, we will see that this content
value can be changed with JavaScript.
So then you can have different
theme color based on where you are,
in which routing your web app you are on,
or the current state of the app.
If it's an embodied state or
you have an error in the form,
you can actually put that in red or
yellow, okay?
It also accepts the media, Attribute, so
you can use a media query and for
example have a different theme color for
light and
dark things in the operating system.
So you can have different theme colors
that's not possible in the manifest.
In this manifest, we have only
one value for the theme color.
We have a question about updating
the values in the manifest.
So what happens if we wanna
change the theme color later?
Or if you wanna change an icon,
I didn't set the icon yet,
but what happens if we change the icon?
Well, the answer is not so
simple because it depends on the platform.
In short words, let's say that for
most Android users,
the installed PWA will be recreated
a ring-style with a new
values on the next day,
there is an algorithm that will
be triggered to update the icon.
And maybe now there is a new
theme color for iOS and
desktop today at least,
that those values won't be updated.
So if you want to change the icon,
unfortunately, the icon won't change.
The user needs to reinstall the app.
That's probably gonna change,
assume but it's not there yet.
So the answer is that on Android, the icon
will be recreated with the new properties,
but that's not the case on
the other platforms as of today.